docs: add run lumos on web English version (#265)
nervosnetwork/lumos: docusaurus/website/i18n/zh/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/run-lumos-on-web.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

> # Now lumos can run in a web browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Now lumos can run on browser
```

> ### TL;NR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TL;DR
```

> lumos was originally run on NodeJS only, and was not designed to run in a web environment. In order to run on web, we replaced native indexer with ckb-indexer, added BI which is a big number library , and a series of other upgrades to make lumos run in web environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lumos was originally run on NodeJS only. To run on browser, we replaced native indexer with ckb-indexer, added BI which is a big number library, and a series of other upgrades.
```

The following example of getting the balance will show you how to use lumos in your web project.

```shell
npm install @ckb-lumos/lumos
# yarn add @ckb-lumos/lumos
```

```jsx
import { Script, Indexer, BI } from "@ckb-lumos/lumos";

async function main(): Promise<BI> {
    const lock = { code_hash: '0x...', hash_type: 'type', args: '0x...' }
    const CKB_RPC_URL = "https://testnet.ckb.dev/rpc";
    const CKB_INDEXER_URL = "https://testnet.ckb.dev/indexer";
    const indexer = new Indexer(CKB_INDEXER_URL, CKB_RPC_URL);
    const collector = indexer.collector({ lock });
    let balance: BI = BI.from(0);
    for await (const cell of collector.collect()) {
        balance = balance.add(cell.cell_output.capacity);
    }
    return balance;
}

main();
```

> please refer to [ckb-indexer-collector example] (https://github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/blob/develop/examples/ckb-indexer-collector.ts) get  a complete example, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
please refer to [ckb-indexer-collector example] (https://github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/blob/develop/examples/ckb-indexer-collector.ts) for a complete example.
```

### ckb-indexer

> Because `@ckb-lumos/indexer` and `@ckb-lumos/sql-indexer` need to start the database and compile the code locally, cannot be run on the web side, we introduced `@ckb-lumos/ckb-indexer` and gradually removed `@ckb-lumos/indexer` and `@ckb-lumos/sql-indexer`. Examples of how to use`@ckb-lumos/ckb-indexer` are as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because `@ckb-lumos/indexer` and `@ckb-lumos/sql-indexer` need to start the database and compile the code locally, cannot be run on the web side, we removed them and introduced `@ckb-lumos/ckb-indexer`. Examples of how to use`@ckb-lumos/ckb-indexer` are as follows.
```

```jsx
import {
    Script,
    Indexer as CkbIndexer,
    helpers,
    config,
} from "@ckb-lumos/lumos";
config.initializeConfig(config.predefined.AGGRON4);
const address = "ckt1qyqxgftlqzmtv05cwcyl4xlz6ryx6dgsyrasjrp27t";
const lock: Script = helpers.parseAddress(address);
```

### BI big number library

In order to facilitate the calculation of large numbers, we provide the [large number library BI](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/tree/develop/packages/bi). You can convert strings, numbers, etc. to and from BI and perform some common operations.

```jsx
import { BI } from "@ckb-lumos/bi";

BI.from(1).add(1)
```

For more use of the API, please refer to [BI Test Cases].(https://github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/blob/develop/packages/bi/tests/index.test.ts)

### More Updates

1. Migrate ckb-js-toolkit to @ckb-lumos/toolkit
    
    [ckb-js-toolkit](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-js-toolkit) is a tool to help ckb users develop `dapp`. It provides a set of standalone tools such as `reader`, `rpc`, etc., which have now been integrated into the `@ckb-lumos/toolkit` package. It has been maintained as part of `lumos`. 
    
2. Conversion of new addresses
    

>     ckb2021 upgraded [address](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/pull/239/files), lumos also followed up with support for new addresses, adding methods such as `encodeToAddress`, please refer to the [PR](https:/ /github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/pull/205)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Lumos also supports ckb2021 upgraded [address](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/pull/239/files), adding methods such as `encodeToAddress`. Refer to this [PR](https:/ /github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/pull/205) for more.
```

    
3. Example code additions
    
    Added `secp256k1-transfer`, `secp256k1-multisig-transfer`, `pw-lock-metamask`, `omni-lock-metamask` and other sample code, please refer to [lumos/example](https:// [github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/tree/develop/examples](http://github.com/nervosnetwork/lumos/tree/develop/examples))
    
4. Online tools
    
    The online tool supports interconversion between script and address. Visit the link [🔗](https://nervosnetwork.github.io/lumos/tools/address-conversion)
    
5. [lumos playground](https://codesandbox.io/s/objective-cloud-282i4?file=/src/index.js)
    

>     We used codesandbox and `@ckb-lumos/lumos` to build the [playground](https://codesandbox.io/s/objective-cloud-282i4?file=/src/index.js) of `lumos`, which you can use in playground]([https://codesandbox.io/s/objective-cloud-282i4?file=/src/index.js](https://codesandbox.io/s/objective-cloud-282i4?file=/src/index.js)), you can quickly try out the features of `lumos` in [playground](https://codesandbox.io/s/objective-cloud-282i4?file=/src/index.js). Visit the link [🔗](https://codesandbox.io/s/objective-cloud-282i4?file=/src/index.js)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We used codesandbox and `@ckb-lumos/lumos` to build the [playground](https://codesandbox.io/s/objective-cloud-282i4?file=/src/index.js) where you can quickly try out the features of lumos.
```
